#summary Do you want to produce a certificate or badge for students who complete your course?

= Course Completion Certificates or Badges =

Some students love certificates and badges. They provide a nice feeling of accomplishment.

If you plan to provide certificates to students upon successful completion of the coures, you'll need to design the certificate or badge. 

Be sure to use a tool that makes it easy for you to fill in the final certificate with the student's name and whatever other information you want to include, such as the student's scores on the graded assessments or the final score for the course.

<font color="#ff0000"><<TODO (Coming back to this *after* I have a first version of the "how to build it" pages written. Then, rewrite this to accommodate the fact that our IDs actually hate certificates, but we do let you create 'em, so...

here's Sean's comment on this topic, taken from CourseBuilderExperiment:

I agree with Phil that certificates constitute extrinsic motivation and are likely to function as a distractor. Providing certificates means that the goal of the course for the students changes: instead of 'learn as much as you can', it becomes 'get a certificate'. And that turns the course into an all-or-nothing game.

This means that if you have a student who progresses a bit slower than expected with the first few lessons, or a student who joins the class late, then said student is not going to expect to get a certificate anyway. Since this has become the benchmark for success/failure, why should the student carry on learning, especially when he/she has so much else to do? And by specifying such a benchmark, you'd add to the number of personal failures a student has racked up, though this may be alleviated in online MOOCs because they are generally not a one-time-only opportunity.

So I would also remove the statement and downplay the emphasis on certificates. I don't even think the qualifier 'many' is correct. Of the 300+ students I've taught in small classes over the past three years (lectures don't count, since I don't know those students well enough), I'd say all but about 5-10% of them don't have any intrinsic love for certificates; I'd say many more hate them. They know they have to get them, but that's about it; they believe they have no other choice within the system they work in.

I'd hope that we could work outside that system; that we always provide specific, helpful, positive encouragement, rather than 'unfortunately, you failed to earn a certificate in this course'. For example, we might provide easter eggs along the way and at the end, which are unlocked on completion of relevant sections and whose existence is not pre-announced (so that it doesn't constitute a metric for success or failure). Another alternative is to have a course that runs forever so that any student has a chance to reach the end.

The article http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/mackay/exams.pdf is also interesting reading and probably explains the points I am trying to make much better.

For the second question, I am guessing we did certificates for the Power Search course because it was somewhat of a default option with MOOCs nowadays -- Udacity, Coursera, etc. do them too. Perhaps we also wanted something that would give us hard numbers to measure things like completion rates with -- i.e., it was more for our benefit than for the students'.
>></font>