#summary Overview of the pages that discuss changing the code.
=Course Material=

This section is about understanding and modifying the Course Builder code to make it appropriate for your course material. These pages discuss changes you can make to have different course material but essentially the same course layout and the same types of questions and interactions with your students. You are welcome to make more extensive changes to the software, if you find it does not meet all of your needs.

The pages in this section include:

  * [DevEnvironment Set Up Your Development Environment]<br>Describes how to download Python and Google App Engine.

  * [GetCode Get the Source Code]<br>Describes how to download the code and get the sample application running for the first time.

  * [ExplorePS Explore the Sample App]<br>Walks through the pages students see when they take the course. This is about what the course looks like. Consider reading [WhatsInACourse What's in a Course?] at the same time; it goes into more detail about the parts of content.

  * [ExploreCode Explore the Sample Code]<br>Lists all of the files included with the sample code and notes which ones you must change.

  * [ModifyTemplate Modify Course Template]<br>How to modify the basic look and feel of all of the course pages.

  * [CreateRegistration Create Registration]<br>How to modify the student registration code.

  * [CreateHomePage Create Home Page]<br>How to modify the code that creates the home page for your course. 

  * [CreateLessons Create Lessons]<br>How to modify the code to know about the lessons for your units and a bit about creating video and text for those lessons.

  * [CreateActivities Create Activities]<br>How to modify the code to create the activities that go into the course units; that is, ungraded assessments.

  * [CreateAssessments Create Assessments]<br>How to modify the code to create the graded assessments for your course.

  * [Certificates Certificates]<br>All about creating certificates to bestow upon your students and a bit of philosophy about whether or not you want to do this.

  * [UploadCode Upload Your Code]<br>How to upload your course to Google's production servers, to make it available to the world.

  * [AppEngine About App Engine]<br>Some details you might want to know about App Engine.