#summary Tips for creating and organizing an email list just for sending announcements.
<h1>Announcements-only Email List</h1>

Throughout your course, you may want to send email to all of your registered students. (See [Announcements#Reminder_announcements,_typically_in_email Announcements and Optional Material] for suggested emails). To do so, you need an email alias that includes those registered students. Course Builder does not provide a way to automatically enroll students in an email list.

Instead, you have several options:

  * If you already have a way to manage a large email alias, use that mechanism. To get a list of registered students,  see [ExportCourseData Export Course Data].

  * If your course has fewer than 100 students, you can send mail from your Google App Engine application for free. If you want to send more than 100 emails in a single day, you would have to upgrade to a paid Google App Engine account. See the official [https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/mail/sendingmail Google App Engine documentation].

  * Alternatively, you can use Google Groups to create an announcement email alias. [#Include_subscription_link Include a subscription link] to your group on the page you display when a student successfully [CreateRegistration registers].

This page discusses how to create an announcement alias using Google Groups and how to suggest to your students that they subscribe to that alias.

== Create an announcements-only Google Group ==

To create a Google Groups list that only lets owners post (that is, one that you use for announcements but not for interacting with your students):

  * Visit [http://groups.google.com].
  * Click on the *New group* button.

  * On the *Create Group* screen:
    * Enter a *Group name* such as *_{{{My Course}}}_ {{{Announce}}}*, where  _*{{{My Course}}}*_ is the name of your course.<br>Note that the system automatically sets *Group email address* to _*{{{my-course}}}*_*{{{-announce}}}*{{{@googlegroups.com}}}.
    * Enter a *Group description*.
    * Set *Group type* to *Email list*.
    * In *Basic permissions*, 
      * Set *View topics* to *Anyone*.
      * Set *Post* to *Owners of the group*.
      * Set *Join the group* to *Anyone*.

  * Once you finish creating your group, you see a Congratulations screen. From that screen, choose *Customize your group's settings*.

    * In the left navigation, expand *Settings*.
      * In the left navigation, choose *Email options*.
        * (Optional) Add a subject prefix, so students can easily identify messages sent from this group.
        * (Optional) In *Email footer*, choose *Display how to unsubscribe from this group by email.*
        * In *Post replies*, choose *To the owners of the group*. This restricts members of the alias from sending email to anybody other than the group owners.
        * Save these settings.
      * In the left navigation, choose *Moderation*.
        * In *Moderate messages*, choose *Moderate all messages to the group.*
        * Save these settings.
      * In the left navigation, choose *New members*.
        * In *New member permissions*, turn off *New members can post*.
        * Save these settings.

    * In the left navigation, expand *Permissions*.
      * In the left navigation, choose *Access permissions*.
        * Set *Contact the Owner of a Group* to *Owners for the group*, to restrict posting to the owners.
        * Save these settings.

    * In the left navigation, expand *Members*.
      * In the left navigation, choose *All members*. You should be the only listed member.
      * Click on the row representing you.
      * On the new page, under *Posting permission*, choose *Override: member is allowed to post*.
      * Save these settings.

You (and only you) can now post messages to your new group, either from the Google Groups interface or by sending email to _*{{{GROUPNAME}}}*_{{{@googlegroups.com}}}.

For more information about these and other settings, see [http://support.google.com/groups/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=2464926 Create a group]. 

== Include subscription link ==

When a student registers for your course, you should include information about how to subscribe to the announcements-only group you created in the previous section.

See [CreateRegistration Create Registration] for information about modifying registration.

Include information about your group on the page the student sees upon successful registration. To do so, modify the file at {{{views/confirmation.html}}}. If your group is named _*{{{My-Course-Announce}}}*_, include something like the following:

  {{{<p class="top_content">Thank you for registering.</p>}}}<br>
  <br>
  {{{<p>To receive announcements about this course, register for the}}}<br>
  {{{announcements-only email list at}}}<br>
  {{{<a href="http://groups.google.com/group/}}}_*{{{My-Course-Announce}}}*_{{{">http://groups.google.com/group/}}}_*{{{My-Course-Announce}}}*_{{{</a>.}}}<br>
  {{{On that page, click on <b>Join Group</b>.}}}<br>
  {{{In the dialog box that appears, under <b>How do you want to read this group?</b>, choose <b>Email</b>.</p>}}}

|| [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!categories/course-builder-forum/set-up-and-manage-community Ask questions in the forum] ||