#summary Advice for designing an online course
#labels Featured

= Design Process =

Designing an online course using Course Builder is both similar to and different from designing for any other setting. This section contains advice we've gleaned from creating online courses, such as [PSHistory Power Searching] that handled thousands of students. Much of what we describe is fairly standard instructional design methodology, modified to support the demands of this different venue. Some of the differences took us by surprise.

We are not the experts instructional design or in creating online courses. We offer this advice in the spirit of lessons we've learned that may be useful to you. If you have other lessons or more effective ones, please share them with us on our [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/course-builder discussion forum]. <font color=red><<TODO is that the right link?>></font>

Our design process has four simple steps, which get iterated multiple times:

  * *[OnePlan Plan before you start.]*<br> Before you get into the details of creating your course, take 30 minutes to think about the following areas and write down your answers. Eventually, you'll spend much more than 30 minutes on planning; this initial time is to get you oriented in the right direction on all aspects of your course.

  * *[TwoDevelop Develop the content without technology.]*<br> In the first parts of development you expand on the information you determined during the planning phase. After that, you get down to deciding precisely what you want students to learn and how you’ll get them to do that. You create a detailed set of objectives, ways you'll evaluate whether your students met those objectives, and develop the content for lessons, activities, and so on. When you're finished with this step, you have a "mockup" of your course that you can show to others to validate its appropriateness and to use when you get down to writing software, recording video, setting up email lists, and so on.

  * *[ThreeImplement Implement the course with technology.]*<br> The first iteration of the theoretical development is now done. Now, it’s time to "implement" it. During this phase, you write the text content of your lessons, create videos, and modify the Course Builder software to implement assessments and activities. You also set up your groups, organize online office hours, arrange for teaching assistants, and do all that other fun stuff.

  * *[FourPilot Pilot with your target audience.]*<br>  We strongly encourage you to pilot your course by having people go through the entire course before you release it to actual students. You may find, as we have, that a large percentage of your work comes after the first pilot, when you see how people actually interact with your material. Be sure to leave enough time to make the necessary changes you discover while piloting.


|| [Coursebuilder Ask questions here] ||