=Example Post-Course Survey=

We used the following survey questions for the Power Searching with Google course. Feel free to use some, all, or none of these questions for your own course.

==Tell us about your experience...==
Regardless of how much of the course you completed, we'd like to hear about your experience.  Please take a moment (less than 5 minutes) to answer a few questions for us.  Responses will be kept anonymous. Thanks!


  # *"Power Searching with Google" had 6 classes as part of its coursework.  HOW MANY classes did you do (whether you did a portion or all of it)?*<br>Select your response... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Not sure/Don't know.<br><br>
  # *Overall I found it worthwhile to take this course.*<br>Select your response... Strongly agree, Agree, Neutral, Disagree, Strongly disagree.<br><br>
  # *This course has improved my ability to locate information using Google.*<br>Select your response... Strongly agree, Agree, Neutral, Disagree, Strongly disagree.<br><br>
  # *How helpful was the COURSE FORUM in supporting your learning?*<br>Select your response... Not helpful, Somewhat helpful, Very helpful, Not applicable. I didn't experience it or can't recall.<br><br>
  # *How helpful was the GOOGLE+ PAGE in supporting your learning?*<br>Select your response... Not helpful, Somewhat helpful, Very helpful, Not applicable. I didn't experience it or can't recall.<br><br>
  # *How helpful was the HANGOUT ON AIR in supporting your learning?*<br>Select your response... Not helpful, Somewhat helpful, Very helpful, Not applicable. I didn't experience it or can't recall.<br><br>
  # *If you marked "Not helpful" for any questions above, please let us know the reason:*<br>Open text area<br><br>
  # *(Optional) We'd love to hear your impressions about this course. Please share more thoughts below! What did you find most valuable?  What should we improve?*<br>Open text area

