#summary Get the software needed to implement your course and explore the sample course.
#labels Featured

= Get Started =

This section is about getting started with the Course Builder code. The pages take you through downloading and installing the necessary software, including the sample course provided with Course Builder.  Later pages get you started running the sample code for the first time and exploring what's in it. The final page contains a small set of App Engine information you may find particularly useful when working with Course Builder.

  <b>Note for PC users:</b> Do *not* use Notepad to edit Course Builder files. If you do, every Course Builder file appears to be one long line. Please use another text editor, such as !WordPad.

The pages in this section include:

  * [Download Download the Software]<br>Describes how to download Python, Google App Engine, and the Course Builder sample application.

  * [GetCode Run the Sample App]<br>Describes how to get the sample application running for the first time.

  * [ExplorePS Explore the Sample App]<br>Walks through the pages students see when they take the course. This is about what the course looks like. Consider reading [WhatsInACourse Parts of a Course Builder Course] at the same time; it goes into more detail about the parts of content.

  * [ExploreCode Explore the Sample Code]<br>Lists all of the files included with the sample code and notes which ones you must change.


|| [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!categories/course-builder-forum/customize-and-deploy-course-builder-code Ask questions in the forum] ||