=Happiness Metrics=

Happiness metrics let you gauge student attitudes towards the material and feelings of satisfaction. Some common questions include:

  * How satisfied were the students with what they learned?
  * Do they think they will be able to use the material?
  * Did they enjoy the course?
  * Did they feel well supported, by their peers or by the instructors?

To collect this information, you need to ask the students directly. Send a post-course survey to everyone who registered for your course. Consider sending different surveys to people who registered but didn't finish the course from those who did finish it.

For an example of a survey you can use to gauge student satisfaction, see [ExampleSurvey Example Post-Course Survey].

Google Forms provides a simple way to create a survey. See [http://support.google.com/docs/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=87809 Create, send, share, and edit a form]>. You can easily view a summary of the results, as described in [http://support.google.com/docs/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=139706&amp;topic=1360904&amp;ctx=topic Collect and view form responses]. If you want to do further analysis of the results, see <font color="#ff0000"><<TODO what's a good place to point them?>></font>

*Note: possible limitation*
Google forms are restricted to a total of 400,000 cells. For many courses, that is more than enough. However, with 8 questions this limits you to responses from 50,000 students. 

If you want to send surveys to more than 50,000 people, you have some options.

  * *Create multiple copies of the same survey using Google Forms.*
This is easy to do, but makes it harder to analyze the full set of results. The forms tools will only work on one survey at a time. You can export the survey data to a different tool for analysis.
  * *Use a different tool for creating your survey and analyzing the results.*
For Power Searching with Google, we used an internal tool for creating much larger surveys. Unfortunately, this tool is not available to the general public.