#summary Explains the internationalization (i18n) and localization support.

<h1>Internationalization</h1>

<wiki:toc />

Course Builder supports 57 languages and all student facing text is translated in these languages. To enable this expanded language capability, do the following steps:

  # [http://code.google.com/p/course-builder/downloads/list Download] the language pack to your computer.
  # Unzip the file. You now have a directory called {{{i18n}}}.
  # Navigate into the {{{modules/}}} directory in your Course Builder installation.
  # Copy the new {{{i18n}}} directory that you unzipped to this current directory, completely replacing the old {{{i18n}}} directory with this new directory. 

To use one of these languages, specify it in the {{{course.yaml}}} file. For example, to specify the Spanish translation, the locale line should be 

{{{locale: 'es'}}}

The language letter code to use is the directory name of that language in the {{{locale}}} directory. The full path to the language directory is:

{{{modules/i18n/resources/locale}}}

Course Builder’s Internationalization framework uses the following technologies:

 * [http://code.google.com/p/webapp-improved/downloads/detail?name=webapp2-2.5.1.zip&can=2&q= webapp2]
 * [http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/cmdline.html pybabel]
 * [http://pytz.sourceforge.net/ pytz]
 * [http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/extensions/ Jinja2’s i18n extension]

This Internationalization capability was provided with the help of UniMOOC-Tec ([http://www.unimooc-tec.com/]) at Universidad de Alicante.

==Custom Translations==
You can still make custom translations for languages outside of the supported languages. All translatable strings are placed within the {{{ {% trans %} }}} {{{ {% endtrans %} }}} beginning and end tags. These tags are embedded within the HTML templates, which are located in the {{{views/}}} directory.

For example, the following code:
{{{
{% trans %} Unit {% endtrans %}
}}}
indicates that the text “Unit” can be translated. 

If you change the default text within these tags or add new translatable strings of your own, you must update the {{{.po}}} file in 

{{{modules/i18n/resources/locale/<language>/LC_MESSAGES}}} 

Then run {{{pybabel update}}}.
