#summary Overview of the pages that discuss changing the code.
#labels Featured

= Implement Course Material =

This section is about creating your course and modifying Course Builder to make it appropriate for you and your organization. These pages discuss changes you can make to have different course material but essentially the same course layout and the same types of questions and interactions with your students. You are also able to serve many different courses on a single Google App Engine instance.

  <b>Note for PC users:</b> Do *not* use Notepad to edit Course Builder files. If you do, every Course Builder file appears to be one long line. Please use another text editor, such as !WordPad or Notepad++.

The pages in this section include:
  
  * [CourseSettings Customize Course Settings]<br>How to modify the default settings for your course.
  
  * [Accessibility Accessibility]<br>Overview of Course Builder accessibility.

  * [I18n Internationalization]<br>How to switch language contexts in Course Builder as well as a list of currently translated languages.

  * [Dashboard Dashboard]<br>How to access a broad range of information about your course in one place.
  
  * [CreateRegistration Modify Registration]<br>How to modify student registration.

  * [CreateLessons Create Lessons]<br>How to create lessons for your units.

  * [CreateActivities Create Activities]<br>How to the activities that go into the course units. You can think of activities as smaller assessments.
  
  * [PeerReview Peer Review]<br>How to create assignments that involve students grading each other's finished work..

  * [CreateAssessments Create Assessments]<br>How to create the graded assessments for your course.

  * [RunMultipleCourses Run Multiple Courses]<br>How to use the same Google App Engine instance to run multiple Course Builder courses (optional).

  * [DeployAgain Deploy Again]<br>How to repeatedly deploy your course to Google App Engine, to make it available to the world.


|| [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!categories/course-builder-forum/customize-and-deploy-course-builder-code Ask questions in the forum] ||