#summary The role of email, office hours, announcements, and optional material in your course.
<h1>Instructor-Led Communication</h1>

The official course content you create using our experimental code (see [CourseMaterial Course Material]) is, of course, a major part of the formal communication between you and your students. However, it is not the only communication.

Here, we distinguish between the formal communication, typically initiated by the course staff, from informal web forum communication, frequently initiated by students. All of these efforts are important in creating a successful feeling of community for your students and yoru course staff.

The types of formal communication we typically see are:
  * [#Reminder_announcements Reminder announcements of particular events], such as deadlines for assessments or the release of new units.
  * [#Informative_announcements Informative announcements], such as a standard answer to a question that came up repeatedly in any student communication. (For example, if the wording of an actitivy question confused a lot of students, you might decide to post a clarification.)
  * [#Optional_course_material Optional course material], such as background reading for students who might need a little extra help getting started, or anciallary or more advanced material for students who want to explore aspects of the topic not covered in the main materials or who want more challenging activities to strengthen their knowledge of the main materials.

There are a variety of technologies available to you for each of these types of communication. Which you choose to use depends on your circumstances. What is described below are the choices we made for Power Searching.

== Reminder announcements ==

You may choose to send reminder announcements to students at important points along the way. We chose to use email for these announcements, as students are more guaranteed (though not really guaranteed) to see the emails than to see things posted in other ways.

Be very careful here. If you use email, you must avoid spamming your students by sending too many emails. On the other hand, do send enough emails to keep their interest without annoying them. 

If you decide to send emails, you need to first collect your students email addresses. You do this during the registration process <font color="#ff0000"><<TODO link to description>></font>. Create an email alias containing all of your students' email addresses.

Once you have the email alias,  consider sending these emails:

  * *At course registration*<br>A brief description of the course, the high-level schedule for the course, an introduction to the community features available to them, and so on.
  * *Whenever you release new content*<br>Link to the new content, any upcoming deadlines.
  * *Partway through, to students who have registered but not started the course*<br>Sometimes students register and then forget to start a course. Partway through the course, you can collect the addresses <font color="#ff0000"><<TODO link to how>></font> of these people and send them a reminder that they might want to start. 
  * *Before a special event*<br>For example, if you have a Hangout On Air, send a reminder message about it.
  * *Upon submission of final assessment<br>*Notification of whether or not the student has passed and when to expect the certificate (if any).
Whatever emails you decide to send, we recommend that you draft them in advance.  See [ExampleEmails Example Emails] for some samples.

*Tip:* Use other mechanisms for less important announcements, suchas your Google+ page or your forum.

== Informative announcements ==

During the course, there will be times when you want to let your students know some extra information, but the information is optional or you otherwise do not think it worth sending to all of their email accounts. For example, you may receive the same question from any students, over a variety of your communication mechanisms. At first, you probably answer these questions one at a time, in whatever place the question was asked. Once you notice the trend, however, you may want to create a standard answer to that question and post it in one place.

Although this is a formal announcement, treating it in a more informal manner is appropriate. For this reason, we suggest using your [WebForums web forum] for this purpose. As you can see on that page, if you use a forum post for these announcements, you can mark duplicates of the question the post answers and cut down on the noise in your forum.

== Optional course material ==

The units and assessments are the primary mainstream course material for your MOOC. However, you can have optional material for some students. For example, you can have background reading for students who need a little extra help getting started. You can have more advanced material for students who want more challenging activities to strengthen their knowledge of the main materials. You can have ancillary material for students who want to explore aspects of the topic not covered at all in the main materials.

You have several options for material of this sort, depending on your goals for it.


<font color=red><<TODO consider changing this page to be about both G+ pages and about blogs in general. Obviously, give it a more descriptive name in that case. What think my reviewers?>></font>

People frequently use Google+ to connect to other people. But they can also use Google+ to connect with other things, such as businesses, sports teams, or even your course. To give your course a Google+ presence, you create a Google+ page for it. Consider [http://support.google.com/plus/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=1710691&amp;topic=1710599&amp;ctx=topic creating a Google+ page] for your course before you release the course.

There are several ways you might want to use your Google+ page for your course:

  * Even if you keep the Google Group for your course private to its registered students, you might make the Google+ page available to the entire world. You can use it as a way to let the everyone know what a great course you've created.

  * You should design the primary flow of your course for the middle range of students. You don't want to bore those students with background material and you don't want to intimidate them with too advanced material. You can use your Google+ page to post material that is not appropriate for the primary flow of the course.

  * And, if you use [OnlineOfficeHours Hangouts On Air] in your course, you can post those on your Google+ page as an easy way for your students to access them.


<font color=red><<TODO as may be clear, I'm not really certain what to say about this. I never looked at the G+ page for Power Searching, except for the HOA>></font>


==Supporting students==

  * *Online office hours*: Just because you have thousands of students doesn't mean they don't want to hear their questions answered live by an instructor. To enable this interaction, you can use a combination of Hangouts On Air and Google Moderator. See [OnlineOfficeHours Online Office Hours].
  * *Content-related questions: *Have  students post these to  your Google+ page or to the forum you create for that purpose. See [WebForums Community Discussion: Web Forums] and [PlusPage Google+ Page].
  * *Administrative questions:* Consider creating  a help alias for your students such as help@example.com. If you create a help alias and you have teaching assistants, share that address with all of your assistants, so that they send email from a formal location rather than from their own email addresses.

==Certificates or badges==
Students love certificates and badges. They provide a nice feeling of accomplishment.

If you plan to provide certificates to students upon successful completion of the coures, you'll need to design the certificate or badge. 

Be sure to use a tool that makes it easy for you to fill in the final certificate with the student's name and whatever other information you want to include, such as the student's scores on the graded assessments or the final score for the course.

<font color="#ff0000"><<TODO anything interesting I can say here?>></font>