#summary List modules and extensions that work with Course Builder but are not natively packaged with it.

<h1>List of Modules and Extensions</h1>

<wiki:toc />

Course Builder accomodates certain modules and extensions that extend its capability but are not packaged natively with it. The following sections list those modules and extensions as well as the locations to download them. The locations themselves will have directions on how to install them.

== Modules ==
The module listed below must follow the convention described in [CreateModules Create Custom Modules] and be placed in the {{{modules/}}} directory.

  * [https://github.com/psimakov/khan-exercises-coursebuilder Khan Academy Exercises]. This module lets you embed Khan Academy Exercises in your Course Builder course. You have instant access to over 400 existing exercises and can add your own. See [http://www.softwaresecretweapons.com/jspwiki/khan-academy-exercises-in-course-builder Khan Academy Exercises] for more information.
 
  * [https://code.google.com/p/oppia/ Oppia]. Oppia is a tool for creating interactive online activities. Many activites usually only let the students know whether they got the question right or wrong.  Perhaps additionaly, the activities may give prepopulated feedback on right and wrong answers.  Oppia instead aims to simulate the one-on-one interaction that a student has with a teacher by capturing and generalizing “interaction dialogues.” See the [https://www.oppia.org/ Oppia website] for more information.
  
  * [https://github.com/google/coursebuilder_xblock_module XBlock Module]. Enables [https://www.edx.org/ edX] [https://github.com/edx/XBlock XBlocks] to create and present course content in Course Builder. This module uses the [https://github.com/google/appengine_xblock_runtime XBlock Runtime] library for Google App Engine.


== Extensions ==

 * [https://github.com/google/instant-hangouts Instant Hangout]. Adds Google+ Hangouts to any page. Only requires two lines of code to implement this feature. By default, the button will display the Hangout name and information about the participants, rather than just a button to start a new Hangout.
