#summary Categories of measurements to consider collecting and general tips for doing so.

=Collect and Analyze Metrics=
Metrics are simply anything you measure so you can see the difference you have made with your course and so you can have concrete information to guide future improvement of your course. 

Deciding early on which metrics to collect makes it more likely that as you continue to the develop the course, you remember to collect the information necessary to compute those metrics. Do not wait until after the course has launched; it may well be too late by then. 

There are three basic categories of metrics that we suggest using. Not all of these metrics are relevant to all courses. Depending on your content and on the course objectives, you may use any, all, or even none of these metrics.

|| *Metric type* ||  *To measure* || *Examples* || *How to collect* ||
|| *Assessments * || Student skill level and improvement in ability || What percentage of students scored at least 30 points higher on the post-course assessment than on the pre-test? <br>What percentage of students missed questions around a particular topic? || Take snapshots of students' ability at various times. For example, administer pre-, mid-, and post-course assessments. <br>For more information, see [AssessmentMetrics  Assessment Metrics]. ||
|| *Reach & engagement * || How many people you reached with the course and how engaged those people were || How many students registered? <br> How many completed each unit and each lesson?  <br>What countries did the students come from? <br> What were the overall drop-off rates?  <br>When did students tend to drop off? || Use Google Analytics. <br>For more information, see [ReachAndEngagementMetrics Reach & Engagement Metrics].||
|| *Happiness* || Student attitudes towards the material and feelings of satisfaction || How satisfied were the students with what they learned? <br> Do they think they will be able to use the material? <br> Did they enjoy the course? <br> Did they feel well supported by their peers? <br>Did they feel well supported by the instructors? || Send a post-course survey to everyone who registered for your course.  Consider sending different surveys to people who registered but didn't finish the course from those who did finish it.<br>For more information, see [HappinessMetrics Happiness Metrics]. ||

==General tips==
  * Consider that with a truly massive course, the raw number of students who complete the course may be more useful than the rate of completion compared to the number of registered participants. If 150,000 people registered for your course  and you only had a 5% completion rate, that is still 7,500 people who completed your course. 7,500 is a lot of people, even if it is a small percentage.
  * If you're concerned with how well your material works for an international audience, figure out the completion ratio by country. Assume 80% of the people from your country completed the course, but only 5% of people from other countries. That might indicate that your material is less effective for people from other cultures.

  * During the course, collect metrics as you go, recording all of them in a centralized location.
  * If time is limited (and it will be), prioritize which metrics you need immediately, and which ones can wait.
  * Is a pre- and post-course assessment comparison needed? 

  * Assuming you have a team of people working on your course, split the metrics work among several people. If possible, have a different person be responsible for each category of metrics. If you can't do that, consider having someone work on the metrics full time.
  * If you have not worked with metrics before, keep in mind that working with and analyzing metrics is not a very easy task. The amount of data you collect will seem overwhelming and you won't know what to do with it. If you know people who are comfortable in this area, reach out to them. There are a lot of people who can help you.