=Online Office Hours=

You create most of your course material, the [CreateLessons lessons], [CreateAssessments assessments], and [CreateActivities activities], prior to the start of the course. During the course, you primarily communicate with your students through email and through a web forum.
   
Another way you may choose to communicate with your students is with online office hours. As with any course, your students appreciate having their questions answered by live instructors. You can enable this with Google Hangouts or Hangouts On Air, possibly in conjunction with Google Moderator.  These mechanisms allow you to interact with your students in real-time.

A *[http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/ Google Hangout]* is a video chat that can take up to 10 video participants (you plus nine others). In a Hangout, you can talk with the other participants and even share your computer screens. If your audience is very small, this is a lovely way to interact. If you're creating a MOOC, however, you probably anticipate a much larger audience. For this, you can use a Hangout On Air instead of a normal Hangout.

A *[http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/onair.html Hangout On Air]* lets you broadcast a normal Hangout to the rest of the world, by broadcasting it on your Google+ page and your YouTube channel. During the Hangout, people around the world can watch the Hangout. They will not be able to directly contribute (the 10-person limitation still exists for interaction over video). The hangout is recorded as a public video. You can then edit and share the recorded hangout for posterity.

Although only 9 people can join you directly in the Hangout, you can still get close to real-time participation from people watching the Hangout On Air. You do this by creating a *[http://www.google.com/moderator/ Google Moderator]* series. Google Moderator is a tool that allows distributed communities to submit and vote on questions for talks, presentations and events. A few days before your Hangout On Air, you open a Moderator series for your students and have them submit questions to the Hangout On Air presenters. Other students then vote on the questions, so that by the time the Hangout On Air starts, the presenters have a prioritized list of questions to start answering. During the Hangout On Air, students continue to submit and vote on questions; the order of questions can therefore change in real-time.


Thus, you can use Hangouts On Air plus Google Moderator to create even more discussion between you and your students. We recommend that you use Hangouts On Air sparingly with a large course. 

==Setting up a Hangout On Air==

Hangouts On Air are a very effective way of broadcasting a live event to a large audience. Keep in mind, however, that they take a bit of effort to organize. See [http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;ved=0CFwQFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fservices.google.com%2Ffh%2Ffiles%2Fblogs%2FHangouts_On_Air_Technical_Guide.pdf&amp;ei=_AobUPSmDcH7igKT7IDQCA&amp;usg=AFQjCNHQeYbIaw3r8BgomjusXFYH9XIycg&amp;sig2=F0tnm46dn5vUVnAVIf5pDw Google+ Hangouts On Air] for step-by-step instructions for organizing one.

===Some tips===

  * You must have a Google account and a YouTube channel to organize a Hangout On Air. See [http://www.youtube.com/create_channel Create your YouTube channel].
  * The URL for a  Hangout On Air becomes available only when you actually start it. That means that you cannot publicize the URL ahead of time.
  * Instead, publicize either the URL for your YouTube channel or the URL for your Google+ page. When your Hangout On Air starts, it will be visible at the top of those two locations.
  * Your audience may include hearing impaired people. Additionally, non-native speakers of the language of your Hangout On Air may be more comfortable reading your language than hearing it spoken. For these reasons, consider having a transcriptionist create captions in real-time for your Hangout On Air. (See [https://hangout-captions.appspot.com/ What is Hangout Captions?] for more information.)
  * [http://support.google.com/plus/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=2459411&amp;topic=2553242&amp;ctx=topic Hangouts On Air common questions]
  * Please read [http://support.google.com/plus/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=2553248&amp;topic=2553242&amp;ctx=topic An important point about copyright]

==Setting up a Google Moderator series==

If you organize one or more Hangouts On Air for your course, you should create a Moderator series for each one. This lets people ask questions of the Hangout On Air participants. To create a series:

  # To create a series, visit [http://google.com/moderator http://google.com/moderator] and select *Create Series*. (This requires signing in with a Google Account.) This brings you to the series creation page. 
  # Name your series to tell your audience what it is about.
  # Provide a description about your series.
  # Add administrators who can also change the series name, description, and topics.
  # Choose whether or not to allow users to make submissions anonymously.
  # Choose whether or not to allow users to make submissions containing YouTube videos.
  # When you're done, click *Create Series*.

You can later change this information by using the *Edit Series* button on your series page.

===Common questions===
  * *How can I add a question / idea / suggestion to a series?*<br>You can either submit a question or vote on a question that's already been asked. All you need is a Google Account to sign in. At the bottom of the topic page, just click the *Suggest a question* button.
  * *How do I vote to get an existing question asked?*<br>If you see a question that's been submitted, you can vote to recommend that it's asked. To do so, simply click the *checkmark* button. If you'd like to vote against an existing question, you click the *X* button. When you mouse over the bars, you see the number of submitted votes.
  * *How I comment on an existing question?*<br>In addition to voting in favor of or against a question, if you own a series you can post comments on questions. Click *Post a response *and you can share your thoughts on the question with other participants.
  * *How are most popular submissions ranked? *<br>Moderator ranks questions based on a simple statistical algorithm, with the goal of discovering the most popular questions. That algorithm is the ratio of positive votes to total votes for a submission, which is scaled by the total number of votes for the submission.
  * *How can I get other people to vote on my idea or an idea that I really like?*
The *Share* button allows you to copy a direct URL link to your idea, or share your idea directly through Gmail, Facebook, and Twitter. To use any of these services, you will need to sign-in to them and allow Google Moderator to access them. You can do this for any idea in a Moderator series.