#summary Introduction to community aspects of a MOOC.
=Participant Community=

Fostering a community between instructors and students and among the students is an integral part of creating an successful MOOC. There are several aspects of the community, each of which is covered in a separate page:

  * [InstructorLedCommunication instructor-led communication] that you have with your students, such as emails,
  * avenues, such as a [PlusPage Google+ Page], for posting additional content,
  * [OnlineOfficeHours online office hours],
  * [WebForums web forums] for students to interact with each other,
  * the [TeachingAssistants people] you have talking to your students.

Why do you want to foster community among your students? There are several important reasons: 

  * If your students feel they are supported by humans throughout the course, their motivation and determination increase.
  * If your course is massive, you cannot effectively answer all of your students questions, even if you have a small army of teaching assistants. With a community, students are much more likely to get answers to their questions.
  * Even if you and your assistants could answer everybody, you might not be the right people to answer questions. Peer instruction can be better than expert instruction. Peers remember what it’s like to not know the material; you and your assistants may have forgotten.
  * You can use the community to address differences in students' abilities. For example, you can design the primary course materials for the "average" student and then post both background material and advanced material in the forum for students with more or less knowledge. This method lets you help a wider audience while keeping the primary material focused.

Your goal with a student community is to have your students support each other as much as possible. 

<font color=red><<TODO There's a very nice [http://courserafantasy.blogspot.com/2012/08/thinking-about-communication.html blog post] about communicating in a mooc. See if I should mention more of that.>></font>