#summary Evaluate how many people you reached and how engaged those people were.

=Reach and Engagement=

Evaluating the reach and engagement of your course lets you determine how many people you reached with the course and how engaged those people were. *Reach* refers to home many people visited your course while *engagement* can refer to how long each person stayed on each page and how many pages each person visited.

Some common questions on reach and engagement include:

  * How many students registered? 
  * How many completed each unit and each lesson? 
  * What countries did the students come from?
  * How many students are new versus returning students?
  * What are the most popular pages?
  * What were the overall drop-off rates? 
  * When did students tend to drop-off?

For suggestions on data you can use to measure reach and engagement, see [ExampleReachEngagementMetrics Example Reach & Engagement Data].

For an example of how to use student assessments and reach and engagement data to evaluate your course's effectiveness, see [AnalyticsForEdu Combine Assessment and Reach Data].

==Google Analytics==
Google Analytics is our tool for collecting and analyzing reach and engagement data. The [http://www.google.com/analytics/learn/index.html Analytics site] contains a lot of useful information. Start with [http://support.google.com/analytics/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=1008015&topic=1726909&ctx=topic Get started with Google Analytics.] This step-by-step guide describes how to get an Analytics account to use with your course. 

To collect Analytics data, copy the !JavaScript snippet from your Google Analytics account and paste it into the {{{before_head_tag_ends}}} mapping in the [CourseSettings course.yaml] file:

<pre>  before_head_tag_ends: |
   `<script type="text/javascript"`>
   var _gaq = _gaq || [];
   _gaq.push(['_setAccount', 'UA-somenumber-x']);
   _gaq.push(['_trackPageview']);
   (function() {
   var ga = document.createElement('script'); ga.type = 'text/javascript'; ga.async =
   true;
   ga.src = ('https:' == document.location.protocol ? 'https://ssl' : 'http://www') +
   '.google-analytics.com/ga.js';
   var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(ga, s);
   })();
   `</script`></pre>

You must specify the pipe ({{{|}}}) after {{{before_head_tag_ends}}} to indicate multi-lined block notation. 

In YAML, indenting and spaces are incredibly important: even a single errant space can cause a parse error.  See the [http://www.yaml.org/ YAML official site] for more information about YAML, including the latest edition.

Remember to convey your privacy policy to students and let them know that they will be tracked on metrics you wish to measure.

|| [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!categories/course-builder-forum/evaluate-course-efficacy Ask questions in the forum] ||
