#summary Course Builder Release Notes

<h1>Course Builder Release Notes</h1>

<wiki:toc />

==Release notes for version 1.5.1==

  * *Analytics for Student Progress.* You can view student progress, at an aggregate level, at *Dashboard > Analytics*. See [Dashboard#Analytics Dashboard > Analytics].

  * *CSS Files.* The {{{main.css}}} and {{{butterbar.css}}} files under {{{assets/css/}}} have changed. Manually update any customizations you made in these files.

  * *Delete Course Data.* Delete all of a course's data from the datastore using {{{ETL}}}. See [ExportCourseData#Download_course_information Download course information] for a summary of the {{{ETL}}} command.

 * *Documentation.* Added example on how to add a custom module. See [CreateModules Create Custom Modules].

  * *File Uploading.* You can now allow students to upload text files through the Upload component. The maximum file size is 1MB. See [CreateLessons#Create_lesson_content_from_the_browser Create lesson content from the browser].

  * *Google App Engine SDK.* For Course Builder version 1.5.1, you should use Google App Engine SDK version 1.8.2. See [Download#Download_and_install_Google_App_Engine Download the Software].

  * *JSON to CSV and XML Conversion.* You can now convert a JSON file into a CSV or XML file through a custom job using {{{ETL}}}. See [CustomJob#Convert_JSON_to_CSV Custom ETL jobs]. 

  * *Page Load Performance.* The speed of page loads was increased on average by roughly 40% from a contribution by Thomas Grenfell Smith.

  * *Peer Review.* There was a bug in those cases when a reviewer reviewed multiple assessments, only the last assessment that was submitted or saved as draft was recorded. This bug was fixed although the fix required a backwards-incompatible change that will break your course if you deploy 1.5.1 on a course that has preexisting review data.

  * *Privacy.* You can obfuscate personally identifiable information with the {{{ETL --privacy}}} command. See [ExportCourseData#Download_course_information Download course information] for a summary of the {{{ETL}}} command.

  * *Question Answer Fields.* You can control the size of the answer field by specifying the number of rows and columns. See [Dashboard#Assets Question Bank].

  * *Search.* All users can now search over a course through the search box. There is a new tab, *Dashboard > Search* where you index your course. See [Dashboard#Search Dashboard > Search].

  * *Views Directory.* Here are the template files that were changed under the {{{views/}}} directory:
    * base.html
    * base_course.html
    * course.html

Here is an informal video to show the highlights: [http://youtu.be/LdTX33xckoY 1.5.1 (running time: 4:18)]

==Release notes for version 1.5.0==

  * *Announcements tab.* The [Announcements Announcements] tab is always visible.

  * *Activities.* You can now record activities. Turn the {{{gcb_can_persist_activity_events}}} setting on in [AdminPage Admin > Settings].

  * *Analytics: tags.* The {{{gcb_can_persist_tag_events}}} flag in [AdminPage Admin > Settings] specifies whether events from components (tags), like !YouTube videos, should be recorded in a datastore.

  * *Butter Bar.* Two new files were added explicitly for the butter bar: {{{/assets/css/butterbar.css}}} and {{{/assets/lib/butterbar.js}}}. The butter bar is the floating, yellow, rectangle, textual information box that displays near the top of the browser. The butter bar will not work if you just drop these files into a previous release; you must start from the 1.5.0 release and bring any customizations into it.

 * *Course Explorer.* You can now use the {{{gcb_enable_course_explorer_page}}} setting in [AdminPage Admin > Settings] to route the root URL ({{{"/"}}}) to a page that lists all your courses. This page is called Course Explorer and by default it is turned off.

  * *Course.yaml.* The {{{course.yaml}}} file is now separated into two parts: {{{course.yaml}}} and {{{course_template.yaml}}}. See [CourseSettings Course Settings].
  
  * *CSS (main.css).* The {{{main.css}}} file under {{{assets/css/}}} has changed. Manually update any customizations you made in this file.

  * *Custom Jobs.* There is a new {{{--disable_remote}}} flag so [CustomJob ETL] jobs that execute without remote procedure calls do not force authentication nor a remote environment setup.

  * *Dashboard: Assets.* You can now make edits to the HTML and CSS directly in [Dashboard#Assets Dashboard > Assets] section. Previously, you had to develop on your development server and deploy the changes you made.

  * *Documentation: Developer's Guide.* A new section was added to the documentation for [ExtendCB Developers]. This section aids those who want to programmatically and safely customize Course Builder. 

  * *Documentation: Custom Jobs.* The [CustomJob Custom Jobs] section was moved to the Developer's section.

  * *Google App Engine SDK.* For version 1.5.0, you should use Google App Engine SDK version 1.8.1. See [Download#Download_and_install_Google_App_Engine Download the Software].

  * *Component: iframe.* A new component type, inlined frames (iframe), was added. You can add iframes as a component in activities as part of a [CreateLessons lesson] or [CreateAssessments assessments].

  * *Lessons: saving the lesson.* There was a bug when you edited a lesson, clicked the *Save* button repeatedly, and then refreshed the page in your browser. In this case, the course information becomes lost in the datastore. This bug was fixed. Now after you click *Save*, the button will be unavailable until you make new changes. 
  
  * *Memcache with multiple courses.* There was a bug if you run multiple courses in one instance where it was possible to access cached objects in one course from another course. This bug was fixed.

  * *Navigation: Logo.* Clicking the institution logo will now take you back to the course page.

  * *Questions.* You can now create questions for both activities and assessments through the browser without using any !JavaScript. That is, you can create questions through the new WYSIWYG editor. You can also group your questions, which you can then insert as a component to both activities and assessments. Please use these question building methods to build your assessment and activity questions. See [Dashboard#Assets Dashboard > Assets].

  * *Registration: Course Browsing.* There is now a setting, {{{browsable:}}}, in [CourseSettings course.yaml] that allows students to browse the course without registering. By default this setting is {{{true}}}.

  * *Registration: Navigation.* Now you are taken to the course page after you register.

  * *Student Profile.* The new {{{gcb_can_share_student_profile}}} in [AdminPage Admin > Settings] determines whether to share the student profile between different courses. It also enables single click registration for those instances with multiple courses on one instance.

  * *Upload Data.* The [ImportCourseData ETL] command now has the {{{--force_overwrite}}} flag that completely overwrites all the existing data in the target system with the uploaded data.

  * *Views Directory.* Here are the template files that were changed under the {{{views/}}} directory:
    * activity.html
    * announcements.html
    * assessment.html
    * assessment_html_content.html (new)
    * bare.html
    * base.html
    * base_course.html (new)
    * ~~base_registration.html~~ (removed)
    * ~~confirmation.html~~ (removed)
    * course.html
    * error.html
    * forum.html
    * lesson_navbar.html
    * preview.html
    * register.html
    * registration_module.html (new)
    * review.html
    * review_confirmation.html
    * review_dashboard.html
    * reviewed_assessment_confirmation.html
    * student_data_table.html
    * student_profile.html
    * test_confirmation.html
    * unenroll_confirmation.html
    * unenroll_confirmation_check.html
    * unit.html

Here is an informal video to show the highlights: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hWCGwsSyaZc&feature=share&list=PLPai_O_OnSmBAfHXuozRvBJY2IOAuJvTf 1.5.0 (running time: 3:45)]

==Release notes for version 1.4.1==

  * *<font color='red'>KNOWN ISSUE.</font>* If you run multiple courses in one instance go to *Admin > Settings > gcb_can_use_memcache* and keep it at its default value of *false*. Otherwise, it is possible to access cached objects in one course from another course. Objects include student, course, lesson, unit, activity, and assessment. This issue will be fixed in version 1.5.0. See [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!topic/course-builder-announce/bAKkkVo2wew Fix to 1.4.1 Memcache Issue].
  
  * *Accessibility.* Added more ARIA landmarks and removed inappropriate headers.
  
  * *Assessments: Weighted scoring.* You can now weight questions in assessments. You can specify that some questions are "worth more points". This is also available on multiple choice questions with multiple answers. See [http://code.google.com/p/course-builder/wiki/CreateAssessments#Scoring Assessment Scoring].

  * *Internationalization.* Added additional error strings to the i18n language module.

  * *Power Searching Course.* The default _Power Searching with Google_ course had dates next to the units on the course listing page. These were removed. 
  
  * *Security: HTTPS.* Course Builder will now always connect through HTTPS.
  
Here is an informal video to show the highlights: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04ggeGtTZo8&feature=share&list=PLPai_O_OnSmBAfHXuozRvBJY2IOAuJvTf 1.4.0 & 1.4.1 (running time: 5:30)].
  
==Release notes for version 1.4.0==

  * *Administrator Page: Student page interactions.* You can now record student interactions for each of your Course Builder pages. This is off by default. See [AdminPage Administrator Page].
  
  * *Administrator Page: Counter values.* You can now aggregate and record counter values in memcache. This is off by default. See [AdminPage Administrator Page].

  * *Announcement Emails.* Now when you create or update an announcement, you can optionally email it to students. See [CreateEmailList Announcements-only Email List].
  
  * *Custom Jobs.* Course Builder allows you to create and execute custom jobs. You can perform arbitrary computations on your data and then feed it into programs like the R statistics package or a MySQL database. See [CustomJob Create Custom Jobs].
    
  * *Dashboard: Settings.* A new form based editor was added to help edit your {{{course.yaml}}} file. See the [Dashboard#Settings Settings section of Dashboard].

  * *Dashboard: Students.* This tab was renamed to *Analytics*. Bar charts were added to support the visualization of peer review statistics. See the [Dashboard#Analytics Analytics section of Dashboard].
  
  * *Download/Upload Data.* The archive path is now specified as an argument to an option,{{{--archive_path}}}. See [ExportCourseData#Download_course_information download data] or [ImportCourseData#Upload_course_information upload course data].
  
  * *Footer text.* "Powered by Course Builder" is now in the footer of pages that are not student facing. You can delete this text. See [ModifyTemplate#Deleting_the_Course_Builder_footer_text Modify Course Template].

  * *Google App Engine.* For version 1.4.0, you must use Google App Engine version 1.7.7. See [Download#Download_and_install_Google_App_Engine Download the Software].
    
  * *Lessons: Adding components in Objectives.* When you create or edit lessons through the browser, you can now add various components through the rich text editor. Components include !YouTube videos, your course forum, Google Doc, Google Spreadsheet, and Course Builder Activity. See [CreateLessons#Create_lesson_content_from_the_browser Create lessons from the browser] or the [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpQqNkRdcck video (4:48)].
  
  * *Peer Review.* You can now use peer review as a grading mechanism. See [PeerReview Peer Review] or the [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ERlbCXAkDg video (7:38)].
  
  * *Updating Course Builder.* When updating Course Builder, you must now update your index. See [Upgrade Upgrade Course Builder Versions].
    
==Release notes for version 1.3.1==

  * *Announcements.* There was a bug in the *Announcements* editor when you typed text in Rich Text mode and switched to plain text mode. The text would be lost. This bug was fixed.
  
  * *Export and Import Data.* You can now export and import the files that constitute your Course Builder course. You can also export all Google App Engine datastore entities. See [http://code.google.com/p/course-builder/source/browse/coursebuilder/tools/etl/etl.py source code].
  
  * *French language.* There was a bug when using the French language ({{{locale: 'fr'}}}). Some activities were truncated. This bug was fixed.

  * *HTTPS.* You can now access Course Builder through HTTPS.
  
  * *Lesson Notes.* If you do not specify lesson notes in your {{{lesson.csv}}} file or lesson editor, the *Text Version* button in the lesson will not show.
  
  * *Multiple Correct Answers.* You can now have questions that have multiple correct answers. See [CreateActivities#Multiple-choice_questions_with_multiple_correct_answers Multiple Correct Answers].
      
  * *Yahoo Libraries.* Course Builder will no longer make direct web requests to http://yui.yahooapis.com/ to obtain Yahoo's open-source !JavaScript and CSS libraries (YUI) files. This method is more secure than making requests for the libraries over the Internet. 

==Release notes for version 1.3.0==
Many of the updates in version 1.3.0 enable course authors and administrators to edit their courses entirely online without the need to redeploy to Google App Engine.

  * *Administrator Page: Create courses.* You can now create new courses through the Administrator Page. See [CreateNewCourse Create New Courses].
  
  * *Dashboard: course.yaml.* You can now edit the {{{course.yaml}}} file directly through the Dashboard. See [Dashboard#Settings Dashboard Settings].

  * *Dashboard: Create assessments.* You can now create assessments through the Dashboard. See [CreateAssessments#Writing_assessments Writing Assessments].

  * *Dashboard: Create external links.* You can now create links to external sites through the Dashboard. See [Dashboard#Outline Dashboard Outline].
  
  * *Dashboard: Create lessons and activities.* You can now create lessons and actitivies for those lessons through the Dashboard. See [Dashboard#Outline Dashboard Outline].

  * *Dashboard: Create units.* You can now create units through the Dashboard. See [Dashboard#Outline Dashboard Outline].

  * *Dashboard: Import courses.* You can now import an existing course to a new, empty course. See [Dashboard#Outline Dashboard Outline].

  * *Dashboard: Organize course structure.* You can now organize the structure of your course through the Dashboard. See [Dashboard#Outline Dashboard Outline].
  
  * *Dashboard: Upload images.* You can now upload images through the Dashboard. See [Dashboard#Assets Dashboard Assets].

The following are more updates for 1.3.0:

  * *Announcements.* There is a rich text editor to edit the body of [Announcements announcements].
  
  * *Datastore clearing.* When developing on your development server, you should no longer clear the datastore between deployments to your live site. If you do so, you may lose any new courses that you created.
  
  * *Documentation structure.* The structure of the documentation was changed.
  
  * *Internationalization.* Course Builder now supports Zulu.

  * *Student State.* Students can now track their progress on the course, [CreateActivities activity], and [CreateAssessments assessment] through progress indicators. See [CourseFlow#Student_State Student state].
  
  * *Tabs.* The current tab (the tab for the page on which you are currently on) is now underlined.
  
Here is an informal video to show the highlights: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NncSiZhd8ds 1.3.0 (running time: 13:36)].

==Release notes for i18n language pack==
  * *Internationalization.* Course Builder now supports 57 languages. [http://code.google.com/p/course-builder/downloads/list Download] the language pack and integrate it with your installation of Course Builder. See [I18n Internationalization].
  
==Release notes for version 1.2.1==
  * *CSV and international characters.* There was a bug that prevented you from uploading CSV files that contained international characters such as accents. This update fixes the issue.
  
  * *course.yaml and international characters.* There was a bug that disabled the *Settings* section in the Dashboard when [CourseSettings course.yaml] contained international characters such as accents. This update fixes the issue.

  
==Release notes for version 1.2.0==
  * *Accessibility.* A variety of accessibility features were added. See [Accessibility Accessibility].
  
  * *Administrator Page.* A new page was added for administrators who manage Google App Engine for Course Builder. See [AdminPage Administrator Page].
  
  * *Announcements.* You can now create and edit announcements directly in the *Announcements* tab.  Furthermore, you can save announcements as drafts and publish them later. See [UpdateAnnouncementsTab Update Announcements Tab].
  
  * *Bulk uploading.* You no longer have to manually upload the unit and lesson CSV files with the bulkuploader. The uploading of these files is now done automatically.
  
  * *course.yaml file.* The {{{course.yaml}}} file is a new file where you make course customizations. You no longer have to edit each individual template file in the {{{/views}}} directory. See [CourseSettings Customize Course Settings].
  
  * *Dashboard.* A new dashboard was added for course authors to see a broad range of information about their course in one place. See [Dashboard Dashboard].
  
  * *Event Recording.* Course Builder now allows recording of all assessment and activity interactions attempted by students. This feature is off by default and can be enabled in Admin > Settings.
  
  * *Internationalization.* An Internationalization framework was added so you can translate the student viewable text in a custom language. New translations in Spanish and Russian were also added. See [I18n Internationalization].
        
  * *Third Party Libraries.* Course Builder now uses several open source third party libraries. The libraries are located in the {{{/lib}}} directory.
  
  * *Yahoo Libraries.* The Administrator and Dashboard interfaces use Yahoo's open-source !JavaScript and CSS libraries (YUI) from http://yuilibrary.com/. Course Builder will make direct web requests to http://yui.yahooapis.com/ to obtain these files. If this is not acceptable, the Course Builder administrator can make a local copy of the YUI libraries and change the HTML templates to point to these local files. The Course Builder student-facing interface does not use YUI.
  
  * *Security.* Cross-site request forgery, also known as XSRF or CSRF, is a malicious attack that tries to exploit the relationship between a website and a user’s browser. Course Builder implements protection against XSRF using transient user-action specific tokens for all state-modifying HTTP operations supported by the product. Note that full in-depth security review has not yet been conducted. You should conduct independent security testing and take additional steps to secure your production site. If you find an issue, please report it immediately to the development team for assessment and resolution.

==Release notes for version 1.1.1==

  * *Windows platform support.* Course Builder version 1.1.0 contained a bug specific to running a development server on Windows platforms. This update fixes the issue.


==Release notes for version 1.1.0==

  * *New tabs.* Course Builder 1.0 contained two tabs: Course and Forum. CB 1.1 adds two new tabs: Announcements and My Profile.
    * *Announcements tab.* The new Announcements tab gives you a place that you can put course announcements, without having to create a separate forum. The content of the announcements tab is in {{{views/announcements.html}}}. See [Announcements Announcements and Optional Material].
    * *My Profile tab.* The new My Profile tab displays basic student information, such as their name and scores on various assessments. It also provides a place for the student to un-enroll from the course or to change their name. See [ModifyProfile Modify My Profile Tab].

  * *Arbitrary number of assessments.* Course Builder 1.0 supported exactly three assessments per course: a pre-course assessment, a mid-term, and a final. In Course Builder 1.1, you can create any number of assessments for each course, each with its own scoring algorithm. See [CreateAssessments Create Assessments].

  * *Support for multiple courses.* In Course Builder 1.0, you could only host one course per Google App Engine application instance. That is, in the GAE Launcher, you needed a separate application for each course and running each course started its own copy of the GAE binary. Two courses could not share any of the same code. CB 1.1 allows you to host multiple courses simultaneously. See [RunMultipleCourses Run Multiple Courses].

  * *List of existing courses.* This documentation now includes a [ListOfCourses list of courses] people have created with Course Builder. If you have created a course and wanted it listed, fill out the form on that page.

  * *Course syllabus before registration.* In Course Builder 1.0, students had to register for a course before they could see the syllabus of the course. Course Builder 1.1 removes this restriction. See [CreateRegistration Create Registration]. 

  * *Page caching.* Course Builder 1.1 [UploadCode#Clear_cached_pages caches pages] displayed to students during production (but not during development). This should reduce the latency perceived by students and can also reduce [AppEngine#Important:_Quotas_and_billing Google App Engine costs]. 

  * *Changes to assessment data.*  Course Builder 1.1 changes how it stores information about student assessments. See [ExportCourseData Export Course Data].

  * *Testing.* Course Builder 1.1 includes a set of functional tests in the new {{{tests}}} directory. If you make significant changes to Course Builder's source code, consider running (and possibly changing) these tests. See [AppEngine#Run_Course_Builder_tests Run Course Builder tests].

==Release notes for version 1.0==

  * *First public release.* Course Builder is our experimental first step in the world of online education.