#summary Explains the upgrade process from 1.1 to 1.2.

<h1>Upgrade Course Builder Versions</h1>

<wiki:toc />

=Upgrade from 1.3.0 to 1.3.1=
Please use the same upgrade procedures as [Upgrade#Upgrade_from_1.2.x_to_1.3.0 upgrading to 1.3.0 from 1.2.x]. In those instructions:
  * Replace 1.2.x with 1.3.0 
  * Replace 1.3.0 with 1.3.1.

=Upgrade from 1.2.x to 1.3.0=
  # Make a copy of your current 1.2.x version of Course Builder.
  # Download and install version 1.3.0.
  # Copy the {{{/assets}}} and {{{/data}}} folders from 1.2.x to 1.3.0.
  # Copy your {{{course.yaml}}} from 1.2.x to 1.3.0.
  # Change your course name in {{{app.yaml}}} in 1.3.0.
  # Manually transfer other modifications you made in the individual template files.
  # Manually transfer any modifications you made to the Python .py files.
  # In *Admin > Courses* create a [CreateNewCourse new course].
  # [Dashboard#Outline Import] your old (read-only) course into the new course you created.
  # In your new course, go to *Dashboard > Settings > Contents of course.yaml file* and click *Edit*.
  # Delete all the contents in the text box.
  # Copy all the contents of your {{{course.yaml}}} file that is now in your 1.3.0 installation into the text box. Be careful of any extra spaces, which can cause an error.
  # Add this line in the {{{course}}} section: 
    {{{  
    now_available: False
    }}}
    Make sure you add the indentation (two spaces) before the specification. For example,
    {{{
    course:
      # Course title
      title: 'My New Example Course'
      
      # Course Availability
      now_available: False
    }}}
  # Click *Save*.
  # Go to *Admin > Settings > gcb_courses_config* and click *Edit*.
  # Make your new course the root URL and place your old course on the URL path that you specified when creating your new course:
    # In the final value ({{{course:/:/:}}})) delete the {{{/}}} entry from the location entry. Your new course will get its data from the datastore, not from the file system.
    # Add the datastore namespace of your new course. For example, if you specified {{{aux}}} as your Unique Name when you created your new course, your {{{gcb_courses_config}}} values will look like:   
    {{{
    course:/aux:/:
    course:/::ns_aux
    }}}
    # Click *Save*. The page itself shows how to interpret and specify the {{{gcb_courses_config}}} values.

=Upgrade from 1.1.x to 1.2.x=
  # Make a copy of your current 1.1.x version of Course Builder
  # Download and install version 1.2
  # Copy the {{{/assets}}} and {{{/data}}} folders from 1.1.x to 1.2.
  # Manually transfer the modifications you made in the {{{#FIXME}}} sections in the individual template files in the {{{/views}}} directory to the new {{{course.yaml}}} file. In 1.2, you can make all these customizations in one place, the {{{course.yaml}}} file, instead of to each individual template file.
  # Manually transfer other modifications you made in the individual template files.
  # Manually transfer any modifications you made to the Python .py files.