#summary Describes the primary parts of a course created with Course Builder Experimental.

<h1>What's in a Course?</h1>
<wiki:toc />

The primary parts of a course created with Course Builder Experimental are as follows:

  * *[#Course_content_and_delivery Course content and delivery]*<br>The material that you formally convey to students. Formal content can be lessons recorded or written in advance. It can also be live question and answer sessions with instructors.
  * *[#Assessments_and_activities Assessments and activities]*<br>Graded assessments with a fixed deadline to track student progress. They also use ungraded assessments, called *activities*, to provide feedback and hints to students.
  * *[#People_interactions Social interactions]*<br>An important component of any MOOC is the interactions among the students themselves and the interactions between students and the instructors or teaching assistants (TAs).
  * *[#Administrivia Administrivia]*<br>Of course, there are bits and pieces required to register students, to get the course up and running, to track usage, and so on.

A single *course* consists of a series of *units* with individual *lessons* and *activities*. The course can have any number of *graded assessments* scattered before, between, and after the units and lessons. It can also have one or more formally-set up avenues for *social interaction* for the students.

For a quick description of the flow a student typically experiences in a course, see [CourseFlow Course Flow]. For detailed information on creating a course, see:
  * [OnePlan Plan Before You Start]
  * [TwoDevelop Develop the Content without the Technology]
  * [ThreeImplement Implement the Entire Course with the Technology]
  * [FourPilot Pilot with Your Target Audience]

The rest of this page discusses the four main parts of a course in more detail.

== Course content and delivery ==

To make the content more digestible, consider grouping course material into a number of units. Each unit contains a series of lessons and activities related to a particular topic within the content covered by the entire course. For example, in the Power Searching with Google course, one unit is about interpreting search results; another is about checking the reliability of the content of those search results. Each of those units consists of about five lessons and about five activities.

At present, there are two primary unit types:

  * *Self-paced units *created in advance and published either as video, text, or both
  * *Live units* with the course instructors

<font color=red><<TODO Question for REVIEWERS!!!! 

Sean is not enamored of the live unit v self-paced unit distinction. He makes an excellent point that what I'm calling live units here are typically optional and not an integral part of the course. While true, I like the parallelism of having the live v self-paced and would rather make a different change. That is, point out the whenever you create a course, you can choose to make some units optional (whether they be live or self-paced). That keeps the parallelism and points out that you can be more flexible in your design.

I'd like others opinions on this. Please either comment on the page or send me email, if you have one.
>></font>

In both cases, instructors make course content available to students at scheduled intervals throughout the course. Once available the content continues to be available until the course ends. That is, lessons are not available for only a few days; students can go back and redo lessons at any time throughout the course. Soon after a live unit takes place, the instructors post a video of it. So even if students miss the live unit, that material is still available.

Releasing course content at scheduled intervals has one perhaps unanticipated benefit. Many students tend to work on content relatively soon after the content becomes available.  For that reason, questions about course material tend to cluster near the release of that material. Because other students are thinking about the same material, they are more likely to be interested in getting involved in discussions about the material or answering questions.

===Self-paced units===

A self-paced unit consists of a series of lessons and activities. We found that around five lessons and four activities is a good length for a unit.

A *lesson* is a coherent and relatively small chunk of information. In Power Searching with Google, we chose to create each lesson as one video and a text version of the same content. Your lessons do not have to have both parts.

An *activity* is an ungraded assessment, used to provide students feedback on how well they understand the lesson. Activities typically contain optional hints. For more information, see [#Assessments_and_activities Assessments and activities].

Tips:
  * Make short videos, preferably 3-5 minutes.
  * Include closed captions in your videos.
  * For the text version of a self-paced unit, take the time to clean up the transcript and make it into a reasonable document.
  * When deciding what content to put in a self-paced unit, design for the average student.  To accommodate other students, consider putting background or advanced material in forum posts (if you want discussion and maybe answers) or in Google+ or blog posts (if you just want to broadcast the information).

===Live units===

A live unit is a fixed date and time when the instructors broadcast a session for students to watch and interact with. 

If you have a very small MOOC (fewer than 10 people), you can use a Google Hangout for your live unit. If you have more than 10 people, you can use a combination of Google Hangouts on Air and Google Moderator instead.

A [http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/ Google Hangout] is a video chat that can have up to 10 participants. In a Google Hangout, all participants can share what’s on each person's screen, collaborate in Google Docs, view presentations and diagrams together and speak to each other about all of that. If your course is small enough, this is a great way to go. If your course is large, you may still consider having your students break into small groups for interactive activities with each other over Hangouts.

Given the “M” in MOOC, your course probably has many more students. If it does, you can use a combination of Hangouts on Air and Google Moderator to create a live experience with your students. With a [OnlineOfficeHours#Setting_up_a_Hangout_On_Air Google Hangout on Air], you can post a live session with your instructors and any guests you chose. You post the Hangout on Air to your !YouTube channel and to your Google+ stream. Students will not be able to talk to you in real-time, but they will be able to ask you questions through the use of a Google Moderator series. You can use a [OnlineOfficeHours#Setting_up_a_Google_Moderator_series Google Moderator series] to collect questions from your students and have them vote those questions up and down; the collecting can either be done in advance, during the Hangout on Air, or both.

*Tip:* If you do a Hangout on Air, consider using a live captioning service to help students who are hearing impaired or whose primary language is not the language used in the Hangout on Air.

== Assessments and activities ==

An assessment is a test. In Course Builder Experimental, assessments can either be graded or ungraded. Ungraded assessments are also called activities.

When you create your course using our experimental code, you supply the code with the information needed to grade assessments.

===Question types===

Graded and ungraded assessments essentially support the same types of questions:

  * Multiple-choice where there is one correct answer
  * Multiple-choice where there can be more than one correct answer
  * Fill-in-the blank
  * Go and do something 

Telling the experimental code how to grade either type of multiple-choice question is straightforward. Telling it how to grade fill-in-the-blank questions can be trickier. You need to be very careful both in your wording of the question and in what you include about the correct answer. “Go and do something” questions do not require an answer, so you don’t have to include anything about the answer.

===Ungraded activities===

An activity typically covers material only from the lesson that the activity immediately follows. You use them to let the students assess their own understanding of the material in that lesson. An activity does not affect a student’s final score in the course.

When you create a question for an activity, you can provide the following information:

  * The correct answer to the question, so the code knows what to tell the student.
  * A hint about why incorrect answers are incorrect. The hint should point the student to the correct answer.
  * The correct answer and explanatory information.

===Graded assessments===

Graded assessments typically cover material from several units and lessons. You use them to rate students’ performance. Before and after assessments can also help you gauge the effectiveness of the course.

With Course Builder's experimental code, you have control over how many graded assessments you provide and how each of those assessments counts in the final scoring for a student’s grade.

Because you use a graded assessment to rate performance and measure success, your practical choices are: 
  * only let students take a graded assessment once. In this case, you can tell your students which of their answers are incorrect.
  * let students take a graded assessment multiple times. In this case, do not tell them which answers are incorrect. (If you do, then they'll have no difficulty getting 100% when retaking the same assessment.)

If you choose to allow your students to take the same graded assessment multiple times, consider still giving the students some feedback about what they did wrong. To do this, map each assessment question to the corresponding unit and lesson within the course. Then immediately after submission of the assessment, show students the score and list the lessons to review to improve their score. 

== Social interactions ==

Another critical component of a successful course is student participation, in a variety of venues that you can set up. The *live units* discussed as part of course content are only one way for students to participate. Asking questions of the experts is, of course, a time-honored technique.

But one of the main impetuses behind doing a MOOC is to reach an extremely large audience. The size of a MOOC’s audience means that it is impractical for the instructors and teaching assistants to answer all of the questions and to enter all of the discussions posed by all of the students. Instead, you can set up avenues in which the students can participate more proactively and not just with the instructor but also with themselves.

The most common avenues are as follows:

  * *[WebForums Google Groups or other web forum].*<br>A web forum is a great way to get your students to talk to each other. To facilitate discussion, you can set up your forum with appropriate categories, to guide students to likely places to read and to post questions on particular topics within your course. When designing the content of your course, consider creating activities requesting that students post answers to the forum. You can also use a forum to post material that you do not want in the main body of your course, either because it is background material for students who need a bit more help or more challenging questions for more advanced students.
  * *[Announcements Google+ page or blog].* <br> Use Google+ or your blog to share information that you want available to not just your students, but to other people as well. While students can comment on your posts, these formats are still primarily methods for instructors to push information out to the students.
  * *[http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/hangouts/ Google Hangout].*<br>You may decide that you want your students to divide into smaller groups to work on projects together. Your students probably live in distributed areas. You can have them meet in a Google Hangout to collaborate on their project.
  * *Help email alias.* <br>Sometimes students have questions that they know are not of interest to anybody else. For example, “I don’t have access to the videos. What do I do?” or “My dog ate my mid-course assessment. Can I have an extension?” You can provide a help alias for them to use for such primarily administrative questions.

In addition to these things that you set up, students may create additional interaction mechanisms, perhaps an email alias for students interested in a particular aspect of the course material or weekly in-person meetings for students living close too each other.

<a name="administrivia"></a>
== Administrivia ==

Of course, there are bits and pieces required to register students, to get the course up and running, to track usage, and so on.

Web site to bring it all together, analytics to provide usage stats, satisfaction stats, drop-off rates, registration

<font color=red><<TODO gotta write this.>></font>